improve: wip-services docs (#714)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/vtex-io/Reference/concepts/vtex-io-documentation-service.md

createdAt: "2021-04-06T14:55:45.779Z"
updatedAt: "2022-12-13T20:17:44.904Z"
---

In the VTEX IO ecosystem, services play a crucial role by allowing you to run .NET and Node.js code directly on VTEX servers. Services enable VTEX IO apps to export HTTP routes, GraphQL resolvers, and event handlers to the server.

## Developing services

To create and export services, you need to specify the `node` or `dotnet` [builders](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-builders) in your app's [`manifest.json`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-manifest) file. Additionally, GraphQL services can be exported using the `graphql` builder.

> ℹ️ For a practical example, refer to our service example apps: [Node.js](https://github.com/vtex-apps/service-example), [.NET](https://github.com/vtex-apps/service-example-dotnet), and [GraphQL](https://github.com/vtex-apps/graphql-example).

> Check our [service app development guides](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-developing-service-configuration-apps).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, check the [Developing services on VTEX IO](https://learn.vtex.com/docs/course-service-course-lang-en) course in the VTEX Learning Center.
```
